doc: update external cluster docs (#12213)
rook/rook: Documentation/CRDs/Cluster/external-cluster.md

In external mode, Rook will provide the configuration for the CSI driver and other basic resources that allows your applications to connect to Ceph in the external cluster.

## External configuration

* Source cluster: The cluster providing the data, usually configured by [cephadm](https://docs.ceph.com/en/pacific/cephadm/#cephadm)

* Consumer cluster: The K8s cluster that will be consuming the external source cluster

## Prerequisites

Create the desired types of storage in the provider Ceph cluster:
- [RBD pools](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/rados/operations/pools/#create-a-pool)
- [CephFS filesystem](https://docs.ceph.com/en/quincy/cephfs/createfs/)

> ## Commands on the source Ceph cluster

Reviewer: Add a blank line before the header

In order to configure an external Ceph cluster with Rook, we need to extract some information in order to connect to that cluster.

> ### Prerequisite:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

> Create the [RBD pools](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/rados/operations/pools/#create-a-pool), [cephs filesystem](https://docs.ceph.com/en/quincy/cephfs/createfs/) or [multisite (zone, zonegroup or realm)](https://docs.ceph.com/en/quincy/radosgw/multisite/#configuring-a-master-zone)  depending on the types of storage you need to configure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create the [RBD pools](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/rados/operations/pools/#create-a-pool), [cephs filesystem](https://docs.ceph.com/en/quincy/cephfs/createfs/) or [multisite (zone, zonegroup or realm)](https://docs.ceph.com/en/quincy/radosgw/multisite/#configuring-a-master-zone) depending on the types of storage you need to configure.
```

In order to configure an external Ceph cluster with Rook, we need to extract some information in order to connect to that cluster.

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer: Move these prerequisites up to line 14. Currently this section is in the middle of running the commands on the source cluster. Also, change it to level 2 header.
```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

Author: Sure

In order to configure an external Ceph cluster with Rook, we need to extract some information in order to connect to that cluster.

### Prerequisites

Create the desired types of storage in the provider Ceph cluster:
- [RBD pools](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/rados/operations/pools/#create-a-pool)
- [CephFS filesystem](https://docs.ceph.com/en/quincy/cephfs/createfs/)

> - [RGW Multisite (zone, zonegroup or realm)](https://docs.ceph.com/en/quincy/radosgw/multisite/#configuring-a-master-zone)(optional)

Author: Right, 
Added a seprate section for this which make more sense

    Restricting the csi-users per pool, and per cluster will require creating new csi-users and new secrets for that csi-users.
    So apply these secrets only to new `Consumer cluster` deployment while using the same `Source cluster`.

> ##### Sample run

Author: I guess then it will losses it's subdirectory I guess not keeping this is also fine

    Restricting the csi-users per pool, and per cluster will require creating new csi-users and new secrets for that csi-users.
    So apply these secrets only to new `Consumer cluster` deployment while using the same `Source cluster`.

```console
python3 create-external-cluster-resources.py --cephfs-filesystem-name <filesystem-name> --rbd-data-pool-name <pool_name> --cluster-name <cluster-name> --restricted-auth-permission true --format <bash> --rgw-endpoint <rgw_endpoin> --namespace <rook-ceph-external>
```

### RGW Multisite

Pass the --rgw-realm-name, --rgw-zonegroup-name and --rgw-zone-name flags to create the admin ops user in a specific zone, zonegroup and realm.
See the [Multisite doc](https://docs.ceph.com/en/quincy/radosgw/multisite/#configuring-a-master-zone) for creating a zone, zonegroup and realm.

```console

> python3 create-external-cluster-resources.py --upgrade --rbd-data-pool-name replicapool --cluster-name rookstorage --run-as-user client.csi-rbd-node-rookstorage-replicapool

Reviewer 3: This comment looks incorrect to me atleast for RGW usecase. IMO it is better to mention give master zone/zonegroup until https://github.com/ceph/ceph/pull/48731 this got fixed

Reviewer: So this command needs the master zone/zonegroup flags added?

Author: While creating the zones and zgs they needed master flag

> python3 create-external-cluster-resources.py --rbd-data-pool-name <pool_name> --format <bash> --rgw-endpoint <rgw_endpoint> --rgw-realm-name <rgw_realm_name>> --rgw-zonegroup-name <rgw_zonegroup_name> --rgw-zone-name <rgw_zone_name>>

Reviewer: "bash" is the argument, right? 
```suggestion
python3 create-external-cluster-resources.py --rbd-data-pool-name <pool_name> --format bash --rgw-endpoint <rgw_endpoint> --rgw-realm-name <rgw_realm_name>> --rgw-zonegroup-name <rgw_zonegroup_name> --rgw-zone-name <rgw_zone_name>>
```

## Commands on the K8s consumer cluster

> 

Reviewer: How about adding this?
```
To install with helm, see the below section [Helm installation](#helm-installation). Otherwise, continue with the manifests installation.
```

Author: Added it in top so no need two paragraph

3. Paste the above output from `create-external-cluster-resources.py` into your current shell to allow importing the source data.

4. Run the [import](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/import-external-cluster.sh) script.

>    !!! note

Reviewer: For proper rending I believe we need a blank line before the note
```suggestion

   !!! note
```

>        If your Rook cluster nodes are running a kernel earlier than 5.4 or equivalent you may need to

Reviewer: Let's be more direct about recommending to remove those on earlier kernels
```suggestion
       If your Rook cluster nodes are running a kernel earlier than 5.4,
```

## Commands on the K8s consumer cluster

### Import the Source Data

1. Paste the above output from `create-external-cluster-resources.py` into your current shell to allow importing the source data.

2. Run the [import](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/import-external-cluster.sh) script.

   !!! note
       If your Rook cluster nodes are running a kernel earlier than or equivalent to 5.4, remove
       `fast-diff,object-map,deep-flatten,exclusive-lock` from the `imageFeatures` line.

    ```console
    . import-external-cluster.sh
    ```

### Helm Installation

To install with Helm, the rook cluster helm chart will configure the necessary resources for the external cluster with the example `values-external.yaml`.

```console
    $ cd deploy/examples/charts/rook-ceph-cluster
    $ helm repo add rook-release https://charts.rook.io/release

>     $ helm install --create-namespace --namespace rook-ceph rook-ceph rook-release/rook-ceph -f values.yaml

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    $ helm install --create-namespace --namespace <namespace> rook-ceph rook-release/rook-ceph -f values.yaml
```?

>     $ helm install --create-namespace --namespace <namespace> rook-ceph rook-release/rook-ceph -f values.yaml

Author: Yup make sense, updated

>     $ helm install --create-namespace --namespace <namespace> rook-ceph-cluster \

Reviewer: Need a variable for the operator namespace as well

    ```

2.  Verify the creation of the storage class depending on the rbd pools and filesystem provided.
    `ceph-rbd` and `cephfs` would be the respective names for the RBD and CephFS storage classes.
    ```console
    kubectl -n rook-ceph-external get sc
    ```

3. Then you can now create a [persistent volume](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/master/deploy/examples/csi) based on these StorageClass.

### Connect to an External Object Store

Create the object store resources:
1. Create the [external object store CR](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-external.yaml) to configure connection to external gateways.
2. Create an [Object store user](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-user.yaml) for credentials to access the S3 endpoint.
3. Create a [bucket storage class](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/storageclass-bucket-delete.yaml) where a client can request creating buckets.
4. Create the [Object Bucket Claim](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-bucket-claim-delete.yaml), which will create an individual bucket for reading and writing objects.

```console

>     $ cd deploy/examples
>     $ kubectl create -f object-external.yaml
>     $ kubectl create -f object-user.yaml
>     $ kubectl create -f storageclass-bucket-delete.yaml
>     $ kubectl create -f object-bucket-claim-delete.yaml

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    cd deploy/examples
    kubectl create -f object-external.yaml
    kubectl create -f object-user.yaml
    kubectl create -f storageclass-bucket-delete.yaml
    kubectl create -f object-bucket-claim-delete.yaml
```

when the user can directly copy and run the command no need to use `$`

Author: Okay, updated

## Commands on the K8s consumer cluster

### Helm Installation

The helm chart with the example values-external.yaml will configure the necessary resources for the external cluster configuration.

```console
    helm install --create-namespace --namespace rook-ceph rook-ceph-cluster \
    --set operatorNamespace=rook-ceph rook-release/rook-ceph-cluster -f values-external.yaml
```

### Manifest Installation

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not installing with Helm, here are the steps to install with manifests.
```

    rook-ceph-external   /var/lib/rook                162m   Connected   HEALTH_OK
    ```

> 6. StorageClass will also be created depending on pools and fileysytem provided,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Verify the creation of the storage class will also be created depending on the pools and filesystem provided.
```

verify its creation. `ceph-rbd` and `cephfs` StorageClass would be respective name for RBD and CephFS StorageClass.
    ```console
    kubectl -n rook-ceph-external get sc
    ```

7. Then you can now create a [persistent volume](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/master/deploy/examples/csi) based on these StorageClass.

### Connect to an External Object Store

> 1. Create [object-external.yaml](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-external.yaml), [storageclass-bucket-delete.yaml](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/storageclass-bucket-delete.yaml), [object-bucket-claim-delete.yaml](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-bucket-claim-delete.yaml).(Configure parmater names as per the CRD created)

Reviewer: Provide a separate bullet for each one with its description so they know why to create them
```suggestion
Create the object store resources:
1. [External object store](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-external.yaml)[storageclass-bucket-delete.yaml]. (TELL WHY)
2. [Storage class for buckets](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/storageclass-bucket-delete.yaml). (TELL WHY)
3. [Object Bucket Claim](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-bucket-claim-delete.yaml). (TELL WHY)
```

> 2. For more information and advance configuration follow [object-storage.md](../../Storage-Configuration/Object-Storage-RGW/object-storage.md#connect-to-an-external-object-store)

Author: GOt it thanks

    rook-ceph-external   /var/lib/rook                162m   Connected   HEALTH_OK
    ```

6.  Verify the creation of the storage class depending on the rbd pools and filesystem provided.

>     `ceph-rbd` and `cephfs` StorageClass would be the respective namea for the RBD and CephFS storage classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `ceph-rbd` and `cephfs` would be the respective names for the RBD and CephFS storage classes.
```

    ```console
    kubectl -n rook-ceph-external get sc
    ```

7. Then you can now create a [persistent volume](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/master/deploy/examples/csi) based on these StorageClass.

#### Connect to an External Object Store

Create the object store resources:
1. [External object store](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-external.yaml).
2. [Storage class for buckets](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/storageclass-bucket-delete.yaml).

> 3. [Object Bucket Claim](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-bucket-claim-delete.yaml).

Reviewer 3: If the customer want a s3 credentials directly than access to single bucket, he can use this one

!!! hint
    For more details see the [Object Store topic](../../Storage-Configuration/Object-Storage-RGW/object-storage.md#connect-to-an-external-object-store)

> 

Reviewer 3: like if the rgw server belong to multisite, user need pass rgw-realm, zone and zonegroup etc and give an example using the script

    rook-ceph-external   /var/lib/rook                162m   Connected   HEALTH_OK
    ```

6.  Verify the creation of the storage class depending on the rbd pools and filesystem provided.
    `ceph-rbd` and `cephfs` would be the respective names for the RBD and CephFS storage classes.
    ```console
    kubectl -n rook-ceph-external get sc
    ```

7. Then you can now create a [persistent volume](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/master/deploy/examples/csi) based on these StorageClass.

> #### Connect to an External Object Store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connect to an External Object Store
```

Author: Will discuss this levels,
I think we should maintain the subdirectories level

Reviewer: Ok let's discuss. Titles that go too deep just usually aren't necessary IMO.

Reviewer: I still think level 3 header makes sense

Create the object store resources:
1. [External object store](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-external.yaml), it instruct Rook to consume external gateways.

> 2. [Object store user](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-user.yaml), it will create an independent(single bucket) set of user credentials to access the S3 endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create an [Object store user](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-user.yaml) for credentials to access the S3 endpoint.
```

> 3. [Storage class for buckets](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/storageclass-bucket-delete.yaml), create a bucket where a client can read and write objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a [bucket storage class](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/storageclass-bucket-delete.yaml) where a client can request creating buckets.
```

> 4. [Object Bucket Claim](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-bucket-claim-delete.yaml), these are the OBCs claims that will create buckets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create the [Object Bucket Claim](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-bucket-claim-delete.yaml), which will create an individual bucket for writing and reading objects.
```

!!! hint
    For more details see the [Object Store topic](../../Storage-Configuration/Object-Storage-RGW/object-storage.md#connect-to-an-external-object-store)

> 

Reviewer: How about adding an example `kubectl create` command with the resources that were mentioned in this section?

Author: yup

> #### Connect to v2 mon port

Reviewer: Do we need to mention this v2 port section? If their external cluster has both ports, it doesn't matter which one they use. And if only v2 ports are available, wouldn't the correct endpoints already be exported?

Reviewer: They could update to the v2 port, but there is really no requirement to update unless they want to enable v2 features such as encryption or compression on the wire. How about if we make it clear in this section that they will need to use the v2 port if they want to enable those features?

#### Connect to an External Object Store

Create the object store resources:
1. Create the [external object store CR](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-external.yaml) to configure connection to external gateways.
2. Create an [Object store user](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-user.yaml) for credentials to access the S3 endpoint.
3. Create a [bucket storage class](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/storageclass-bucket-delete.yaml) where a client can request creating buckets.
4. Create the [Object Bucket Claim](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/object-bucket-claim-delete.yaml), which will create an individual bucket for reading and writing objects.

```console
    $ cd deploy/examples
    $ kubectl create -f object-external.yaml
    $ kubectl create -f object-user.yaml
    $ kubectl create -f storageclass-bucket-delete.yaml
    $ kubectl create -f object-bucket-claim-delete.yaml
```

!!! hint
    For more details see the [Object Store topic](../../Storage-Configuration/Object-Storage-RGW/object-storage.md#connect-to-an-external-object-store)

> #### Connect to v2 mon port

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connect to v2 mon port
```

> If encryption or compression on the wire is needed user can use the v2 port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If encryption or compression on the wire is needed, specify the v2 port.
```

> Make sure v2 port is available in `ceph quorum_status`, then you can update the `export ROOK_EXTERNAL_CEPH_MON_DATA` to use v2 port `3300`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check if the v2 port is available in `ceph quorum_status`, then update the `export ROOK_EXTERNAL_CEPH_MON_DATA` to use the v2 port `3300`.
```

    rook-ceph-external   /var/lib/rook                162m   Connected   HEALTH_OK
    ```

6.  Verify the creation of the storage class depending on the rbd pools and filesystem provided.
    `ceph-rbd` and `cephfs` would be the respective names for the RBD and CephFS storage classes.
    ```console
    kubectl -n rook-ceph-external get sc
    ```

7. Then you can now create a [persistent volume](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/master/deploy/examples/csi) based on these StorageClass.

> ### Connect to an External Object Store

Reviewer: This section is needed if installing with the helm chart, right? Up in the helm install section, how about a comment that says they need to continue with this section?

Author: No even this is needed with normal manifest installation

Reviewer: Yes, it's needed for both manifest and helm installs. To clarify, I was suggesting that in the helm section we need to tell them to continue with this section, otherwise they might miss it.
